One of the most exciting areas in all of data science right now is wearable computing - see for example this article . Companies like Fitbit, Nike, and Jawbone Up are racing to develop the most advanced algorithms to attract new users. The data linked to from the course website represent data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. A full description is available at the site where the data was obtained: 

<http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones>


Here are the data for the project: 

<https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip>

Original data set is distributed is split into two data sets, spread across several files and uses numeric codes for activities instead of descriptive labels.

In this repo, You can find a R Script (run_analysis.R) that processes this data set and generates a nice summary of the data.

This Script performs the following Steps.

1. Download the DataSet.zip file from the above URL and unzip it if it is not already available.
2. Combine the two datasets into a single data set
3. Serialize the combined dataset into disk for faster reads if the script is run again.
3. Extract only those measurements which contain mean or standard deviations
3. Add the Subject Ids to the Data Set after reading them from subject_train.txt and subject_test.txt and merging them.
4. Add the Activity Codes to the Data Set after reading them from the Y_train.txt and Y_test.txt and combining them
5. Translate the Activity codes into descriptive labels by looking them up in the activity_labels.txt
6. Group the measurements for each activity of each subject and compute the mean of each measurement.
7. Write out the tidy data set to Summary.txt

Summary data generated by this script follows the tidy data principles.
Please refer to CodeBook.md included in this repo for a description of the data set and each of the columns included in the tidy data set.

In tidy data:

1. Each variable forms a column. (We have 86 columns for each of the selected measurements)
2. Each observation forms a row. (There is one row for each activity by each subject. 30 Rows and 6 Activities for a total of 180 Rows)
3. Each type of observational unit forms a table.(This is a dataset containing just the various statistics computed for a single Activity/Subject pair)